Joins : Allows you to extract data from more than one table.

There are various types of joins known as

(i) Inner Join : Acts as an INTERSECT operator, used to extract only common records from the given table. 

syntax : 

select field(s) from tabl1 inner join tabl2 on 
primary_key=foreign_key;


select 
from Dept 

(ii) Outer Join : There are various types of outer joins as 

	(i) Left Join : All records from the left-side table, and matching records from the right-side table. If any child record not available then it would be replaced with NULL.

	(ii) Right Join : All records from the right-side table, and matching records from the left-side table. If any child record not available then it would be replaced with NULL.

(iii) Cross Join : Generates cartician product of given tables. Table A contains n records and Table B contains m records, then it generates (n*m) records. 

(iv) Self Join : If a table joins with itself known as self join. 

select empno,ename,mgr from Emp;


select E1.Empno 'Manager Number',
       E1.Ename 'Manager Name',
       E2.Empno 'Employ Number',
       E2.Ename 'Employ Name'
from Emp E1 INNER JOIN Emp E2 ON E1.Empno = E2.Mgr
order by E1.empno;

Subqueries : Sometimes it is not possible to extract data by using single select statement, to overcome this we need the help of subquery.  A subquery is a query, that which is having another query inside, the query which inside known as inner query and the query which outside known as outer query. 

Everytime, the result of INNER Query will be send as input to the outer query.

-- Display Max salary from Emp table 

select max(sal) from Emp;

-- Display Employ Name who is getting max. salary

select Ename from emp where sal =(select max(sal) from Emp);

-- Display 2nd max salary 

select max(sal) from Emp where sal < (select max(sal) from Emp);

-- Display Employ name who is getting 2nd max salary

select ename from emp where sal = (
select max(sal) from Emp where sal < (select max(sal) from Emp));












